The production process for the sweater was focused predominantly on ensuring the user received immediate feedback and pushing the data in real-time to other devices. These considerations shaped our development process in a number of different ways, specifically allowing us to stay on task and not fall down too many rabbit holes, of which there were far too many.

We initially started working with the Particle Photon, which we felt would meet our goals most effectively because of the built in WiFi and small form factor. Yet despite the benefits of this device, we ended up not using it in our project because of 2 main factors: 1) difficulties connecting to the Berkeley network and 2) difficulty with header files. Many of the libraries associated with with the different technologies we leveraged had pre-built header files, but they all assumed that we would be using an Arduino as the microcontroller as opposed to a Photon. Since the libraries assumed we would be using an Arduino it meant we would have to rewrite all of the headers and potentially the libraries in order to for the code to work. This seemed out of scope because of our limited C++ knowledge. Additionally, we were unable to get the Photon to connect to the Berkeley Networks, even CalVisitor, which also limited the viability of the Photon for this project. Subsequently we opted to use an Arduino Zero with a WiFi shield.

Using the Arduino Zero allowed us to focus on the development of our project as opposed to fighting with the other technologies we were using. We then followed a straightforward process in terms of software development, connecting each component of the system (WiFi/PubNub, accelerometer, LED lights) and ensuring that they worked independently. Afterwards we started connecting the technologies together, first the accelerometer and the WiFi, ensuring the Serial output matched what we were publishing to PubNub. Next we connected the LED lights and the accelerometer to ensure that the lights represented the data we were outputting. This demonstrated a minor problem we had not foreseen. We wanted there to be a baseline illumination for the LED lights (as opposed to not lit up at all), and because we were passing the accelerometer data the LEDs barely lit up. Subsequently we created a multiplier that we applied to the accelerometer data before it was passed to the LEDs, as well as a saturation point, so that the LEDs were using the accelerometer data in real time but also had a baseline illumination. The next step was combining all three technologies and ensured everything was working properly. Once this was done we could focus on attaching the system to the sweater.

In order to attach the system to the sweater, we created an enclosure for the Arduino that was secure (meaning the Arduino would not move) and could be affixed to the to the sweater. After that was solved, we needed to attach the LEDs. In order to figure out where we should place our LEDs we asked students in South Hall “How do you dance?” which resulted in an interesting difference between males and females, with males being more closed off while females were more open with their arms. This lead us to “splitting the difference” and putting the LEDs along to the “top of the arm” which would make the LEDs visible whether the dancer was closed off or more open. Once we had these two components figured out we simply sewed together the sweater + LEDs and attached the Arduino with twine.
